Now to render a map in there.
Let's go back to the map modal components typescript file and now it's time to import dad Google Maps
Javascript SDK which we unlocked and use it.
Now I want to render that map as soon as that view has been loaded because what we do now is something
we rarely do when working with angular will directly manipulate the DOM a little bit.
Typically you want to let angular do that.
But here in the case of Google Maps we got no real way around that.
Now let me note that there is a package called angular Google Maps and you can't absolutely use that
as well.
So definitely feel free to use that package dive into the box there.
And this gives you a lot of components to work with and construct this map.
I just want to mix it up and also show the Javascript SDK case so they will interact with our view.
So the actual DOM that gets rendered from inset our types could file and hence we want to do that from
inside a lifecycle look that runs after our view has been initialized and that would be the after view
in its lifecycle.
So make sure to add this interface here and implement this from at Anglo core.
And this forces you to add energy after viewing it as a lifecycle here.
No it energy after viewing it.
We can now start initializing Google Maps for this I'll add a new private method here which I'll name
get Google Maps and you can named as however you want of course.
And in their I now want to load that Javascript SDK.
Now first of all I need to get access to my window here.
I'll stored is in a constant win and I'll store window as any year now window is a global variable available
in javascript that refers to our browser window essentially.
And I'll just cook said a sentence to ask any sort of typescript does not give me any errors thereafter
I'll add the Google module constant and set it to Windows at Google now wind up Google will now refer
to a variable that by default is not set.
However I need to do this because it will be set as soon as we imported these Javascript SDK and by
accessing this even though of course it will not be said when we first run this.
I can make sure that I can check whether does exist which it will do as soon as we load the map SDK
for the first time so that I don't run this code.
I'm about to run where I do import Javascript SDK too often because now I'll check if Google module
is a thing so if this is not undefined which had for the first time of course will be and if it is not
undefined.
If on the Google module we have a maps property if that is the case then I know OK the Javascript SDK
has been loaded before I should not load it again and therefore here I will return a promise actually
that instantly resolves to the Google module maps property because Dad will in the end be the entry
point to our maps Javascript SDK that exposes all the functions and methods we're about to use.
So I will return that if we already loaded it and I return it as a promise because the our way of loading
the Google Maps Javascript SDK in case we haven't loaded it yet also gives me a promise and I want to
return a promise in all cases so that I can rely on the get Google Maps it function here to always return
a promise that includes some data that resolves to some data idea and to that maps SDK thing.
Now you could add more precise types whoever you want you but the Google Maps SDK exposes a lot of my
efforts and I don't want to spend the next two hours typing method definitions here.
So therefore it is our first check.
Now of course the first time we execute this as I said to Google Maps SDK will not have been loaded
yet and therefore in this case I will then loaded I will for the ad return and you promise here and
that promise receives a function that in turn receives two arguments resolved and rechecked.
These are functions we can call inside of this anonymous function we pass to the promise constructor
to then let this promise resolved to something or reject something so throw an error.
Next I'll create my own script element with document create element script and that's the part I meant
we're not doing that often in angular.
And in general you shouldn't interact with the DOM.
This is a rare niche case where this is actually acceptable.
So I create a script tag here and on that script we can now set a source.
And this is now this source we see here so we can copy that source here.
You only need to copy it up to the API key though.
So let's grab that and let's add this here.
And of course your API key should now be your actual API key.
So the API key we got here.
So let's copy that API key and let's enter it here.
So with that we're essentially setting the source of the script which we want to load.
Now let's also said script async to true and script deferred to true and this will control how the scripts
source is actually loaded.
That this is loaded in a non blocking way and thereafter we can reach out to our document body and append
our child and that child of course is the script tag.
Now one important note whilst we do interact with the DOM directly we don't mess with Angela's template
here.
Instead we append this to our roots document whereas angular only has control over a part of that document.
If you check the index each time all file angular the app gets rendered into this app Ruth thing it
does not control the entire page.
So actually right now we're not rendering anything into angular template or into H2 him Al content rendered
based on an angular template.
So now the script will be loaded and we can now wait for this to load.
So a script on load is a listener I set up here and I define an anonymous RL function that will execute
as soon as the script has been loaded and their I'll add a new constant loaded Google module for example
and now we'll have that Google key on the window.
Now the window we defined up here that is our general window object.
Now it is will be registered as soon as does SDK loaded so we should have that loaded Google module
now let's still check it to be super safe.
Let's check if that has been loaded.
If that is set there for and if on the loaded Google module we have that maps keep.
And if that is the case we know OK.
Now we have maps we can interact with it.
So here we should call resolve and resolve our loaded Google module maps thing here just as up here
when we already had it we resolved the existing Google module maps property.
If for some reason we don't have Google module.
So for some reason loading that SDK failed then I will reject this and throw an error message off Google
maps SDK not available and then we'll have a problem will not be able to render a map essentially.
So that's a lot of work.
But now we've got this Gap Google Maps function place.
We can now call that an NGO after the U.N. is here.
This get Google Maps and this now will always return us that Google Maps functionality here or it is
rejected with that error.
So we get back a promise here is let's add then and catch and catch we'll get that error in case we
reject that the promise.
So in case we got no maps available therefore here I will for now simply lock this.
You of course might think about adding some fallback here or throwing showing some alert to the user
anything like that.
Let's focus on the then case for now.
And in their we basically get our Google Maps esta case.
Now we get an object with a lot of methods that allow us to render a map render markers and so on and
this is now what we work with to build that actual map.